this just from taking responsibility of
my own emotions I was victim of my own
emotions I let my emotions control my
life can you imagine welcome to my
channel and my name is Mika I like to
talk about how to get out the best and
the most of my life and also of your
life and today's topic
is why we are acting as victims so often
in our lives because it just came to my
mind and I was asking myself why do
including me why do we do that with
playing victim I mean pointing the
finger out to someone else and blaming
this other person for our own
circumstances our circumstances in our
life so if I I'm now pointing at my
boyfriend for coming home early and I'm
blaming everything on him that I cannot
do my video now because he needs this
room or whatever then I'm being a victim
I'm not taking
responsibility over my life every time
we're pointing out the finger what we
actually doing is we are getting in a
victim role we are positioning ourselves
in the passenger seat I found out the
word victim itself says a lot victim
comes from the Latin
victima and it means to choose to
sacrifice so every time you're pointing
your finger out on another circumstances
or another person you are sacrificing
something but what are you sacrificing
you are
sacrificing your ability to respond
means you are
sacrificing your power to change the
moment and when I heard this or when I
understood this it sunk deep because I'm
a person I'm still blaming other person
other people other circumstances outter
circumstances
for how I'm feeling sometimes and I
think it's human it's a human nature
that we doing that but to be aware of it
and to be aware of what we actually
do it's deep and it hits me hard today
so victim comes from victima and victima
means choose and sacrifice my question
is why would you want to sacrifice
responsibility in our minds in my mind
maybe in your mind the responsibility is
something I don't really want to have
especially if it's not if it's something
that didn't work out in my
favor who wants to be responsible of
their own miserable life or their own
miserable feelings I think no one
actually wants to be responsible of that
but let's look closer what is
responsibility it's again just a word
says a lot and responsibility is
the ability to respond we are
sacrificing our power to change the
moment itself
ourselves so every time we are being in
this victim role we are sacrificing our
own power to change the
moment doesn't that sound
ridiculous why would we want to do that
and yet we are doing that all the time
everyone including
me and then I was looking even closer to
that
so
fendy my
cat I was just looking closer and what
else we sacrifice with with sacrifying
our power we are actually sacrifying our
responsibility and I think that's why we
actually are going into this victim role
because we don't want to take
responsibility and then suddenly I think
it doesn't sound anymore that bad
because why you want why would you want
to give away away your ability to
respond to any moment and any
circumstances that happens into your
life this means in the end that your
ability to respond is also your power to
change so if you are giving now away
your responsibility your ability to
response it's equal to you giving away
your power to change anything you giving
away your power of how you feel of how
your life will go of what happens in
your life of everything you are giving
away this power and why would you want
to give is your life why would you want
to give away your power
when you see it that way I think no one
wants to give away the power me I don't
want to give away the power I don't want
my boyfriend deciding over how I'm
feeling I don't want anyone deciding
over how I'm
feeling I don't want my mom telling me
what she thinks is good or bad for me to
do which job is good or bad
it's not her
responsibility and I don't want to give
her that responsibility it's
mine and once I understand that
responsibility is actually a
blessing it's actually something so good
to
have then you can take steps forward if
you know okay hey whatever happens into
my life it's my
responsibility my ability to response is
tested then you are going to respond
you're not going to anymore take your
finger and blame on anything else you're
taking the finger back on you always
anything and everything if good or bad
or if you cause these circumstances it
doesn't matter it's always your
responsibility
and I think it's actually a beautiful
thing it's actually beautiful to
know once I'm taking responsibility of
whatever happens in my life I can
actually choose whatever I want in my
life I don't need to
anym sacrifice for anyone or anything
because I like to
say I'm having a joystick of my life and
I'm keeping it in my hand you're not
giving away this joystick anymore from
now
on you know hey whatever it's my
responsibility whatever it's my
responsibility this person treating me
wrong it's my
responsibility it's my responsibility of
how I feel it's it's my responsibility
of how I react it's my responsibility of
keeping this person close to me or not
this is my responsibility it's not my
responsibility to change this person
it's not my
responsibility to tell the person that
this person is wrong no no no it's my
responsibility to understand where I am
at to give keep my energy High to keep
my emotions in a good
State and to keep people that are
draining me away from me that's my
responsibility what other people are
doing is not my
responsibility even if they're doing it
to me it's not mine so at the end it's
so easy to blame someone else for
everything that happens in your life
or for bad things especially in your
life but it's at the same time a weak
thing to do because why why do you give
away this
responsibility because you feel weak you
feel like you cannot take or you do not
have the ability to
respond but weak people don't get a lot
from life and I don't want to say now
anyone here is actually weak I don't
want to offend someone but it's a weak
thing to do
to push away responsibility in all kind
of
situations so life is literally not
going to change if you are not accepting
that you are the root of everything of
everything every good and every bad you
are the root of it you are the person
that is experiencing it do you think
someone that is losing or someone
doesn't know how to manage $100 right do
you think this person will get even will
even get the task to manage $1
million it's obvious that not because if
a person is already not able to respond
for a smaller task life
is giving this person this smaller task
again and again and again and again
until
this person is learning from this task
and then can step up that's why we
actually want to take as much
responsibility as we can because it's
something good it just means okay the
more I'm able to respond to what happens
the more positive is coming to my life
and with every bigger positive with
every
bigger reward is also coming a bigger
task we have to take responsibility over
that's why it's always going hand in
hand it's like yin yang it's like up
down it's like the forever sign it's
just that's life it's just the bigger
the high the lower the low it's just how
it is that's why the more responsibility
you can
take or let's say that more
responsibility you can take when you're
down the more you will get and then
again you will go down and you will be
asked to take this responsibility and
you will go up back and then again and
again and again and
again and that's why we want to actually
take responsibility we actually want to
be responsible for whatever happens into
our lives and I can share another
personal example with you so I was in
depression right when I was 17 18 19
over some years actually I was in
depression and I had a severe eating
disorder and it came to a
point it came to a point where I would
just lie in bed for days for weeks and I
would not go out anymore I just had
no no purpose of living anymore and I
was feeling so miserable that I didn't
want to go out and through not going out
I felt more miserable
and
would again not go out so at the end of
the day or at the end of the week or of
the month I would just be at a point
where I just was so miserable I was
controlled by my miserable feelings this
feeling that I had of feeling miserable
and maybe connected with my past or
whatever was there in the mix but mainly
the feeling of me feeling feeling
miserable was controlling me and told me
to not go
out until it came one day I said it's
enough enough is enough I was Fed Up
from myself like I couldn't stand myself
anymore I just said it's enough and I
took responsibility from that moment of
how I
feel so
that one day I decided in
order I decided enough is enough and I
knew I need to try different things if I
want a different
outcome so I would just get my
together and do things differently I
took responsibility of how I feel of
course I cannot just feel like this
better but I took responsibility and I
took baby steps to feel better better I
was going out I was doing things I like
I like to enjoy the sun I was going for
a walk in the sun I was slowly meeting
people again and step by step with
little baby
steps I gained back my
power I decided that one day I want to
take responsibility over my own
emotions and I got out of that I took
back my
responsibility and that's the only thing
that helped and that's the only thing
that can ever help it's always you and
it's always your decision it's never
someone else and therapy can definitely
help
but in a case where you don't want to go
to therapy it doesn't help it only helps
if you want to do that and until that
moment I didn't want to change anything
so I was not ready and I I was not open
to go to therapy I just did because I
had to and it was not helpful until the
day that I
decided it's enough it's enough and I'm
changing things right now I'm taking
responsibility of whatever
happens
and that's when my life started to
change again life is not going to change
if you are not accepting that you the
root you are the root for everything
that happens in your life it's your
reality not mine I'm the root of
everything that happens in my
life and so it is with everyone and once
we understand hey I'm the root for
everything that happens in my life I'm
the root I'm responsible I'm taking
everything to myself I'm not blaming
myself but I'm also not blaming others
I'm not taking responsibility of of
others of actions or words of other
people but of
mine then life will change and then
Miracles are happening and
then things are going your way you're
creating your life then was it
comfortable definitely not it was
definitely not comfortable was it worth
it it was more than worth it I got back
my
life
it was not only worth
it so with that said just stop being
victim of of your circumstances of
people of your feelings whatever comes
to your life comes and shows up for
you and it's a
blessing whatever comes to your life is
a blessing for you to respond to it's
like a task it's like a game but as long
as you have your joystick in your hand
nothing can happen because you always
have yourself you always have your
joystick in the hand in your
hand and whatever happens if you are
with yourself if you are responsible you
take responsibility you are able to
respond nothing can bring you down
anymore and your life will go the way
you want want it to go do not
sacrifice this ability to change the
moment do never sacrifice this again as
little as it is if you're in a
restaurant you don't like the food say
you don't like the food change it if
you're in the salon and you don't like
how they cut your hair how they do your
nails say it say it don't be victim just
say something it's easy as said don't go
home and blame them for doing a bad job
no right in the minute at the place you
say
something you broke the belt from your
best friend say it and own it don't say
yes but no just say it just own
it it's always the
truth and even if someone disrespects
you
just say something if you feel
disrespected by someone maybe it's a
close person even what options do you
have to take responsibility over that
first I would say something first of all
I would say listen I don't like the way
you talk to me and if you want to keep
talking to me that way I don't think
there is space in my life for
you and once that is said you also keep
you keep your word as hard as it is some
people they just don't want to comply
with how you want to be treated how you
feel
comfortable and that's
fine but
take
responsibility don't let people walk
over you over and over again and then
still be with them and blaming them them
for you not feeling at your best for you
not having your power no it's you it's
always you you decide for not having the
power you
decide to give away that power it's you
it's no one else but you and it's always
you and I have to remind myself over and
over again that's why I did this video
because I'm not perfect and I'm doing
the
same b as over and over again as well I
am young and I make mistakes but I'm
willing to learn and I'm willing to
remind myself and I'm willing to get out
of my comfort zone and I think that's
what is counting that's what we all have
to do we have to just keep keep
experiencing ourselves keep unfolding
and keep understanding
ourselves you have to claim your power
back and your power is your
responsibility so don't be afraid of
responsibility because recall in your
mind Hey responsibility ability to
response is a blessing everything that
shows up for you is for you and the
bigger the test the bigger the task the
bigger the trigger the bigger the
blessing after just take full
responsibility of whatever happens in
your life and you will see
you
will find yourself in a different life I
wanted to say now in a different movie
yes because you will find yourself in a
life that actually goes the way you want
and you will feel like you are the main
character in your movie and it's just
from you taking your power
back I hope this
was inspire iring to you to create the
life you want the way you want it
and yeah I hope you enjoyed watching the
video let me know in the comments if you
want to have more videos like this
and thousand kisses I love you so much
see you in the next video